---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1: Intorduction to Docker"
date:   2021-09-22 20:33:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Docker is used through the tech industry as platform as a service or (PaaS). It's main function is to deploy/deliver containers which is software packages. These containers can include configuration files or libraries to a server. Docker program is written in the Go programming language. Docker is avilable on Mac, PC, and Linux operating systems and can be used a GUI software or via the computer's terminal. 

To install and get started with docker, you must install the program on https://www.docker.com and configure the installation on to your computer. Once it is installed, make sure the docker has access to computer folders for it to run. 

Once you have everything installed, there are simple docker commands to know:
 "$ docker ps -a" lists all of the containers that you have created
 "$ docker start -i <container name> " is the command to start any of your created containers. For instance, to start my container of "mycontainer", the command will be "$ ocker start -i mycontainer". 
 
 If you need to get a interactive terminal you would have to do a "$ docker exec -it <container name> bash". Here is a break down of that code:
 exec: execute the conatiner
 -it: the container will have an interative terminal to work on
 bash: shell were the command lives

 To put it all together, if I was to get a interactive terminal for "mycontainer", it will be "$ docker exec -it mycontainer bash".

 These are the basic commands for docker that is essential when beginning to learn docker.