---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6: Triage "
date:   2021-10-29 11:59:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

One of the biggest skills that are needed for the computer industry is the ability to triage. Triaging he's basically tackling a problem step-by-step by what tasks needs to be done by importance. For instance, if a client says the internet is not working, the tech support agent would first need to find out if the computer is connected to the wireless netowrk. If the client is connected to the network and not getting internet access, then the agent can narrow it down to either a problem with the modem or a permissions made on the server. This example shows how a simple problem can be solved by using triage to better help guiding a person to fixing the problem.

This is can be used for even more completed issues such as configuring apache servers. This happened to one of my computer classes were we had to make sure that we had to add my user to the website I created for my resume. The problem I had was that my user that was linked to my resume didnt show. So using triage, the first thing I did was I had to go into my dockerfile, and check to see if all of my modules were added. After I did that, I checked the home directory and needed to find my username. Then I realized why it was not working which was my spelling was incorrect. So I had to delete and rebuild my dockerfile to make sure that my useradd command contains the right spelling.

As shown above, being able to triage is extrmemely import and the technology world because people can get easily lost. This skill has helped me before and his helping now during my classes.