---
layout: post
title:  "Spring 2022 Blog 4: The Computing Eras"
date:   2022-03-08 11:59:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
The idea of Artificial Intelligence has been talked about in the mid 1950s when machines can communicate to humans and perform tasks for them. This idea became popular on Hollywood as movies like 2001 depicted AI computers controlling appliances and automating daily tasks. However, the idea of artificial intelligence is not the right method of study peole in the technology field use. The idea of commputers interacting and being able to think like humans is called Cognitive Computing. IBM has written an article about it and states that it is computers that is able to naturally interact with humans and work together. There are three main significant time periods that lead to the development of cognitive computing: tabulating era, programming era, and cognitive era. These time eras were extremley important to the development of machines today and how we study computers in the futre.

The tabulating era is where it all started for early processes of computer automation. This era consists of machines that were designed to be single purpose such as punching time cards or storing data and eventually be able to give machines instructions. This help paved way for early automation because they were able to do calulation and help with organizing business when it comes with data. These machines were really useful for the US Census which would be conducted every 10 years and the machines were usfull counting data and organizing it for population studies. Alothough these machines were limited to a single task, they created an early idea was machines and automations can do.

After World War 2, digital machines began to develop and were on the rise of the new possibilities form them including programming. The programming era led to the tools we used today in regards of software development and coding. This era began using programming languages and introduce the idea of a if/then statement where if you tell the coputer about a condition, then the computer will do the acton you programmed it too. Part of this development includes loops where the computer can do the same action over and over again until the if condition finds something to break the loop. These computers in the beginning took up rooms and were not portable, but the invention of the microprocessor helped to bring protability to machines. The programming era also enabled people to create complex operations for the computer to do in return making the computer more automated. Despite these advancements, computers acted like it was a computer and the human and computer relationship was stagmented until a new era began.

In 2011, the congitive era jumped from programming to cognitive era which led to how can humans and computers naturally interact without complexity. However, the formulation of the idea began in the 1960s where people have discussed the possibility of computers to think for themselves and to work side-by-side with their human counterpart in making decsisons or finishing tasks. This idea was showcased in 2011 when IBM launched Watson, a congitive computing that was able to think autonomously. This was displayed in the game show Jeopardy when the computer was able to defeat two human contestants. This helped spread more awareneess the capibilities computers can do when applying cognitive research on computers. People have began developing concepts and products to bridge the relationship gap between man and machine and hopefully will have the abilities to work together instead of humans programming computers. This can lead to consumers having a computer to help with their daily life, but for businesses to use cognitve computing for key decision making. 

In overall summary, the three computer eras gives a sence of how machines evolved from crunching numbers to be able to think for themselves. Knowing about the evolution is key when researching the future posibilites of machines and how it can affect the future for all of us. To learn about more about IBM's take and the source of this blog, please use the link below.

http://publicservicesalliance.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/Computing_Cognition_WhitePaper.pdf 