---
layout: post
title:  "Spring 2022 Blog 2: Color Theory"
date:   2022-02-23 11:59:00 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
One of the checklists for desgining any product or software is to use what type of color desgin or scheme should be used. Using colors especially for a product such as in technology is important because colors can express feelings and give the tone of the product. This idea of using color in guidlelines on how to use it is called color theory. It was orginially used by Issac Newton and his invention of the color wheel. The color wheels represents what colors relate to eachother for better paring. They are broken down to primary colors, secondary colors, and tertiary colors. It is important to understnad what colors are a relation to eachother to show the asthetic desgin of a product. You do not want one main color and one main shade of it. 

Color tempratures is also considered when incorporating colors on a product because it expresses a certian feelings for that product. Each color is categorized in a group based on the type of feeling each color represents. For example, warm colors like red and orange represent power and happiness while blue and purple represent claming and soothing moods. Knowing these relations can help with what mood or exprressions you want people to feel when exploring the product. When you talk about speed and performance, usually laptops or keyboards can be desinged with red and orage while a meditation or desktop work app that is about calm and soothing moods can be blue and green. It is important to test the colors and make sure you get the right reaction to the product as it will add more of a fuller desgin when the right colors are in place. 

The main two conepts when adding color should every desginer use for technology and product design is making sure they relate to eachother and express the proper moods based on the type of product. Colors in a way can be technological because it is a skill to know how colors project certain moods or relate in a certain way. The science behind it is finding the right match to appeal to people about your product. Having to much flashy colors for a project or using the wrong color pallete will not protray the right visiual message. It is important for everyone in the tech industry that using basic color tools and guidelines can help target their products to people visually.